If you're a guest with us, my name is Chad.
I'm Lee Pastor here at Richard's Christian Church.
We're so thankful that you're here.
I was driving.
I was away on the weekend with our elders for our elder retreat and I drove home this morning from Springfield and somebody on the radio said we are six weeks away from Easter and I started to hyperventilate.
That cannot be true when it's five degrees outside.
Man, it's coming quick and February is just flying by.
I wanted to, I felt it while I sat there a little bit.
This passage in John chapter 11, we're gonna finish John 11 today.
And if you are newer with us or just been around for a few weeks, I wanna make sure you know exactly where we are.
We're in a two and a half year study of the book of John.
We're in John chapter 11, we're gonna wrap that chapter up today.
But if I dive into the content, I realize like, man, you're gonna miss the last two weeks.
especially if it's your first week here or you've missed the last few weeks and have been able to catch up.
And without that context, today just doesn't really make a whole lot of sense.
And so I just wanted to give you where we are in the life of Jesus because this is a major, major point that we are gonna turn today.
It's a huge inflection point in the word of God in the life of Jesus.
So what has happened is there's this guy named Lazarus, a woman named Mary and a woman named Martha.
Lazarus is brother to Mary and Martha.
and they are sisters and they are really close friends with this guy named Jesus who we think is a really big deal and we believe is God of the universe, right?
And so Jesus is away at Jerusalem, Mary, Martha and Lazarus live in Bethany and Lazarus gets really sick and Jesus decides not to go to him immediately because he wants to show his disciples and Mary and Martha and teach us that he is the resurrection and the life and that he can do things
that are beyond our comprehension.
And that's why we can trust in him, believe in him and lean into him at all times.
So he waits.
He doesn't go to Lazarus.
Lazarus dies.
They put him in a cave.
They roll a stone over it.
He's dead.
He shows up.
Mary and Martha come out.
They see him and they say, if you had been here, he wouldn't be dead.
And he's like, I know, but do you believe I'm about to do something?
And he does something Lazarus literally raises, rises from the dead, walks out of the cave.
And he's alive and he tells him right last week we finished where he tells all of them, hey, loose him, unwrap him.
He's good.
He rose from the dead.
And that's where we are.
Jesus, for the first time in his earthly life, has resurrected a human being from being dead.
He was dead for four days.
And Jesus rose him from the dead.
And that's where we pick up this story, okay?
So I wanna make sure you had that context.
And we'll get into that in a second.
Vladimir Lenin, a Russian Revolutionist politician, really the founder of the Soviet Union said this.
He said, there are decades where nothing happens and there are weeks where decades happen.
Sounds like January, right?
Sounds like January, like how can this much happen in January?
This is crazy, as long as January ever, and then February just gone.
And that is where we are in John chapter 11.
We are in a point where just a few days happen, but it has a ripple effect all the way to today.
The raising of Lazarus from the dead wasn't just another one of Jesus's miracles.
Jesus had already done multiple miracles at this time, water turned to wine, right?
A series of things, fish, loaves, feet, thousands, you know, stuff like that.
He gets to John chapter 11 and he rises this guy from dead, but it's not just another miracle.
It is a point, literally a point in your scripture if you read the rest of John of no return.
There is the raising of Lazarus, we're gonna see it today, is a point of no return for the life of Jesus, for the people walking with him, and really it's a point of no return in history.
In the Gospel of John, this event, this singular event of resurrection serves as an ultimate catalyst that shifts Jesus' entire ministry.
There's Jesus' ministry in chapters one through 10 in John, and there's Jesus' ministry in 12 and all the rest of the way, and the thing in the middle is this resurrection.
because his ministry moves from a public mission of teaching into the final countdown toward the crucifixion.
The final countdown of the crucifixion.
Matter of fact, from this point forward, Jesus will begin to talk about his crucifixion and his subsequent resurrection more than he has the entire 10 chapters before it.
Now, there's some ways that the landscape shifted after this
heart this resurrection in John chapter 11 and I want to walk through them with you.
I want to give you three ways the landscape shifts.
It does apply to us and then I want to get into the passage and we'll look at three major shifts that happen in the life of the people involved in the story and that can happen among us.
So here's the first thing that skiffs shifts in the landscape of what's going on in the region.
There is a religious response and here's what happens.
Jesus rises Lazarus from the dead and everything the religious people begin to move from concern about Jesus to conspiracy about Jesus, right?
Like everything after John 11 is no longer like, oh, this guy might be a problem.
Everything from this resurrection, Jesus is a problem.
He's a problem for us.
He's a problem for our nation.
He's a problem for the temple.
He's a problem with Rome.
We have a conspiracy on our hands before Lazarus, the religious authorities and chief priests were frustrated and cautious, right?
They're frustrated and cautious.
Like man, I don't like what he's doing.
I don't like some of the things he's saying.
I don't like it when he comes in the synagogue and says some of the things he's going to say, but you know, he's not causing that much harm.
We'll just, we'll just disagree.
We'll watch, we'll learn.
But after Lazarus, they become militant.
The miracle of raising Lazarus from the dead was too big to ignore.
It was too big.
Like water to wine, like we can figure out how he is a rope-a-dope, you know?
And they probably rope-a-doped us.
Somebody came in and got the barrels and replaced them, right?
Five loaves, two fish, feet thousands, you know?
I don't know how they would explain that one, but somehow they were like, not the worst deal in the world, right?
He just fed 20,000 people.
But when a guy is dead, dead dead, four days dead, should be stinking dead, and is resurrected, we have a problem.
And so the religious people of the day, and we're gonna see more about them in a little bit, they move from concern to conspiracy.
The other landscape shift in the story is public perception.
This begins a messianic fever pitch.
I call this section the Lazarus Effect.
That's the name of the whole sermon.
Lazarus Effect created a massive public relations wave that led directly into what we now call Palm Sunday.
Okay?
Well, we now call Palm Sunday, the Sunday before Easter Resurrection Sunday is the momentum into Palm Sunday that's going to happen in some chapters in front of us comes from this moment.
Many of the people who greeted Jesus with Palm branches in Jerusalem when he rides on the donkey in the city were there specifically because they had heard about Lazarus, right?
They had heard about Lazarus and so they go to Jerusalem, he enters and just
Worship breaks out.
Jesus could no longer, this is so important, move about quietly.
Jesus no longer could just walk around, right?
It's like he was in New York City and there's 9 million people and no one knows him and he can go in any restaurant he wants and then he moves to Peoria and you can't go anywhere and not run into someone who knows you, right?
Jesus becomes Peoria famous on a very, very large scale, right?
His PR movement
is happening.
The crowds begin to hunt for Him, both good and both to destroy Him.
Can you imagine?
You're Jesus.
You're the one who has come to save the humanity that you created.
You've come to free people from their sin.
You've come to reestablish the relationship with you that they had before the fall in the garden, just chapter three.
You are here to save.
You were here to show grace, mercy, healing, do miracles, die for them, all the kind of things.
And those same people that you have come to rescue are hunting you like an animal.
They are using words like, we have to destroy him.
We have to kill him.
If he shows up, shoot us a message because we've got to arrest him, right?
Man, what a shift for Jesus.
Being loved by some, being worshiped by some and being hunted by others.
The third shift is a theological shift.
Jesus now moves from life, from his preaching and teaching to life and death.
Even the tone of his messaging gets way more deep and serious.
Within Jesus' own ministry, the focus narrows significantly.
After this, Jesus' teachings turns almost exclusively toward his own coming death and the preparation of his disciples.
Now, after John 11, Jesus knows like, I'm going to die, I'm gonna be buried, and I'm gonna have to hand this whole thing off.
to these 12 guys will turn out to be sifted into 11, right?
A total focus change.
The raising of Lazarus proved that he had power over death.
They hadn't seen that yet, which provided the necessary theological framework for the disciples to eventually process the resurrection.
They're like, how did the disciples wrap their head around
the guy they had spent three and a half years with rising from the dead.
Well, one of the things that helped is they had seen it before.
They're here in John 11.
And so they already know he has the power.
Here's what happens in Jesus' ministry, H.R.
Hadaman said it this way.
Once the tooth piece is out of the tube, it's hard to get it back in.
Amen?
You ever tried?
Yeah, your kids have.
That's what happens on the counter when you go in.
They're like, oh, I squirted too much.
I can just stuff it back in.
You cannot, right?
It's like taking a tent out of a bag.
Did you ever get it back in the way it came out?
No, you just give up, roll it up, throw it somewhere until you need it again, right?
Unless you're in the Boy Scouts, they probably train you to do that, right?
But once the toothpaste is out of the tube, it's hard to get back in.
And that's where we are in John 11.
What happened last week and the week before, when we looked at the resurrection of Lazarus, the toothpaste is out of the tube in the life of Jesus.
And it's not going back in.
All roads from this chapter on lead to the cross, okay?
So everybody know where we are, right?
Once Lazarus is raised from the death, from death, the toothpaste is out and what happens, read by Alyssa so well, is three major shifts begin to be identified and they all apply to us or you today.
So I wanna look at them.
Shift number one is this.
When this guy comes back
from the death, the religious powers begin to fear.
Every single time Jesus does something amazing, it's not just in his life, but if Jesus does something amazing in our city, you know who's gonna be nervous?
It's probably not the politicians.
It's probably not the business leaders.
Who will get nervous is religious people who like to control God and say, this is the way God works.
If God does something massive in the city of Peoria, those who will be the first to criticize will most likely come from our churches because that's exactly what happens here.
Just look at it in John chapter 11 verse 45, the religious power begins to fear because they fear what they have grown accustomed to.
It's what many of us fear is I get used to this and when it changes, I don't know if it's good, right?
We fear it.
Many of the Jews therefore, it says in verse 45, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did believed in him, right?
Here's the work of Jesus, right?
Jesus does something, the people that are there believe and a kingdom expansion happens, right?
A kingdom expansion happens, a good thing happens.
People start to believe in Jesus like, man, this guy isn't just a dude, he is the Messiah we've waited for.
Every single time in your life and the life of the disciples in Jesus here, every single time Jesus does something in you around you through you, I promise you what happens next is going to happen.
There's going to be an equal, if not even more, enemy response, right?
Every time there's a
Action in the kingdom.
There's an equal or worst reaction in the kingdom of darkness and it happens immediately, right?
People begin to believe in him, but some of them, a bunch of tattle tales, went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Some of them doubt, some of them fear, some of them are worried and they run to the chief priests and Pharisees and they tell them this is what Jesus did.
And so the chief priests and Pharisees gather the accounts together and say, what are we?
to do, instead of looking at the resurrection, instead of looking at the kingdom work and joining what God is doing, they are like, we have to do something.
For this man performs many signs.
If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him.
That seems like it should be a good thing, right?
Unless he has come to humble you, take your power, take your influence, take your seat.
This is where we even have to look inside ourselves.
If God shows up, but he doesn't show up the way you want or comfortable with.
Are you gonna start to ask, man, what do we do about that?
Where's the different church we could go?
Who could we tell?
Say, if we let this guy go on like this, everyone believe in it, and the Romans will come and take away both our place
And our nation, right there at the end, we find out what's really going on underneath the thing, underneath the thing.
The Pharisees and chief priests show us our heart.
H.P.
Lovecraft, who was an American author, and he wrote horror literature, like horror comics.
He said this, and this is why he was successful in writing that type of literature.
He said, the oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear.
And the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown.
We feel that when we watch a show or a movie and we don't know exactly what's going to happen or if someone's walking down the basement because in horror movies, they always walk down to the basement, right?
You ever find yourself screaming TV?
Don't go down the basement.
Single lady living by yourself with no gun and don't go in the basement, right?
But they always go in the basement and that fear starts to come in and you can feel it and it's palpable in what you're fearing is like, I know there's something down there.
I don't know what's that.
It's just bad.
It's unknown, right?
That's why many of us stay where we are spiritually because somewhere else is unknown.
Somewhere else is unknown.
And that's what's happening with the chief priests and Pharisees.
I think it's easy for us to throw stones at the chief priests and Pharisees.
I think it's easy for us to judge them instead of making sure we put ourselves in the narrative and see how often they reside in us.
I am a chief priest and Pharisee sometimes.
Because I don't like being uncomfortable.
Those in power,
will always fear when their power is in danger.
They fear what Jesus might have started.
They fear what Jesus might do next.
And for hundreds of years, don't miss this part, for hundreds of years, their traditions have kept them safe, consistent, and living a life of something that I call knowable faith.
Now, it's important.
What is knowable faith?
I don't even know if it's a real thing, but it's how I define it.
This is faith, and I use air quotes for a reason.
It's faith that works within our lives and our control.
It looks good, right?
It's very hard to discern, but it's faith.
It's knowable faith, and here's how it works.
It's faith that has guardrails, right?
It has safety nets,
It has those bumper pads if you suck at bowling, right?
You need those bumper pads and sometimes they're just fun to bounce them off.
It has an ejection button if it starts to move you in a place you don't want to be.
And it is completely within our control and often backed by scriptures of our choosing that are typically taken out of context.
You're like, what do you mean scriptures taken out of context?
Let me submit to you Jeremiah 2911.
It does not mean what you've used it to mean.
If you're like, I don't know, Jeremiah 11, read it later, but read before it and read after it.
It's not a verse for you to prosper and have hope.
That's not who it's written to.
That's not what it's written, but we use it.
We use it, right?
We use it to keep us from being uncomfortable.
You see the religious powers, they begin to fear and they're scared because their noble faith is in serious danger.
Two things the passage says could be lost, right?
The chief priests and Sadducees say we could lose our place and we could lose our nation.
And I just want to talk about one of them for time's sake.
I want to talk about, they talk about this losing our place.
And what they're really talking about there is the Jewish temple.
They're worried about losing our place.
It's no longer God's house.
It's now their house, by the way.
That's a problem.
This is my church.
No, it's not.
It's not your church.
It's not my church.
It's his church.
It has a name on it.
It does not belong to us.
We hold it open handed.
We all won't be here someday and there'll be hundreds and hundreds of other people who will lead this thing and drive this thing and pray for this thing because it's his and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
But what the temple became was their place.
And here's what that means.
If they were going to lose their place and meant these things, we're going to lose our institutional control.
We're going to lose the collapse of our religious system that we built over the last 400 years while God's been silent.
We're gonna have exposure to our spiritual bankruptcy.
This is what Jesus often does with religious people.
Those who religion, by the way, I define it as man's attempt to control God.
We keep him in a box and we're like, it's the only thing to stay in there, God.
We good, right?
And we can't see outside that box and it's really hard to break through that.
It's a deep work of the spirit.
But what happens is when Jesus shows up, he actually reveals their spiritual bankruptcy.
He's showing the world.
He's showing poor people that the chief priests and Pharisees don't know that much.
He even says to him, don't you know the scriptures that you memorized in your Bible classes?
Deeply offensive to them.
And also what they were afraid of losing was it meant that potentially Rome who was in control could come and destroy everything if Jesus keeps causing a stir.
You see their place
was their platform of power, legitimacy, and security, and the same fear exists today.
Let me talk about our places a little bit, just to bring it home in Peoria and Richwoods, our institutional structure.
That could be something like our building, our systems that you've just gotten used to.
How about moving to three services?
How many of you did that make uncomfortable?
Because here's what we did as a church and it just so the times work mainly, but the bottom line was all of you attended the nine or the 11 and you all had to move.
You all had to move.
The only people that didn't have to move that showed up to 11 and 11, 30, now they're just on time.
Everybody else had to move, we've got a few, it's awesome.
But everybody had to move.
It created fear in some.
It created trepidation in some.
It created angst.
Some of us stopped serving because we're not sure, like, which one are we gonna serve?
Which one are we gonna attend?
Which one are the kids gonna be at?
What youth is gonna do?
Where we're gonna go, right?
Our institutional structure got challenged by a simple move, simple from two to three, okay?
And you start to wonder, like, what if we changed the name of the church?
What if we changed the location of the church?
What if, how much would it disturb our institutional structure?
It often shows up in our platform, right?
We lose our position, our reputation, our voice.
Let me tell you how I see this in the local church.
The church grows, which is what we pray for, right?
Why do we pray that the church grows?
Anybody know?
Because our mission is to help people find and follow Jesus.
And if we help people find and follow Jesus, what's that mean?
It's gonna grow.
It's gonna grow, right?
Unless we're just trying to help you find and follow Jesus, hard stop, nothing more.
And then we're just entertaining saints, right?
So if we're supposed to help people find and follow Jesus, then the church is gonna grow.
And if you've been around for the last five years, you've watched the church grow.
And when it's happened as the church grows, what can feel uncomfortable is I used to be one of 250 and now I'm one of 1250.
And I can't go on the pastor's schedule as quick as I want.
I don't have as much direct access, and I don't get to whatever, or I don't get to get my hug on the way out.
And that's a good thing.
We need to do less hugging, right?
It's the best part of growth, like calm the hugging now, right?
But we lose even our platform, right?
We have to wait longer in kids' line, because there's more kids, which we should be celebrating instead.
We're like, I'm losing my temple.
Something miraculous is happening and I'm losing my platform.
We could lose our role, right?
We could lose our comfort zone.
This is the one I see the most inside the church, even inside a city, is when we change something or God moves in a direction, we start to say, but that's the way we've always done it, right?
What's the Pharisee's problem?
We've always done it this way, man.
We don't touch lepers.
We don't talk to Samaritan women.
We don't.
We don't honor women period in his day.
We don't let children sit on our lap when we're busy.
We don't hang out at the pool of Bethesda.
We don't help the blind and invite them into the temple.
We keep it on the outside and they can just get in arms as we pass by and get our scraps.
This is the way we've done it, Jesus.
And it can come in here among us.
There's a big danger.
We can defend systems that Jesus is ready to outgrow.
And we can do that in our personal life.
Jesus is ready to grow you and we're defending systems that you're ready to outgrow.
And the chief priests weren't primarily afraid of Rome.
If you're reading that passage, you're like, man, they were afraid of Rome.
They weren't afraid of Rome necessarily.
They were afraid of irrelevance.
and a loss of control, and that's why you keep Jesus in a box.
I'm afraid of decreasing and them increasing.
I'm afraid of the control of my finances, my position, my church, or whatever.
And what is the source of this fear?
It's found in the next shift.
This is my favorite part of the message, by the way.
Shift number two, Jesus becomes dangerous.
And I mean this in a good way for us, for many of us, and I mean it in a yikes, he's dangerous.
I like dangerous Jesus, right?
You're gonna see in a second, dangerous Jesus is awesome.
John chapter 11 verse 49, this guy named Caiaphas draws this out.
They're like, here's where our fear comes from.
This guy is dangerous.
He says, but one of them Caiaphas who was a high priest that year said to them, you know nothing at all, right?
They're trying to say the people around him are trying to say, man, he's a concern.
We will probably have to deal with it at some point.
And he's saying, you know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish.
He's like, this is worse than you think.
This guy is dangerous.
He will take our temple, he will take our nation, or he will create a pathway for Rome to do both.
He is disturbing the force.
It's bad, right?
And he says, it's better.
It's better, fellas.
If one guy should die, then everything we have built.
He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one, the children of God who are scattered abroad.
This guy prophesied that Jesus, like a Messiah would come and do the things that Jesus is doing.
And now Jesus is here doing them and he wants to kill them because he's so afraid.
Never forget my friends.
Never forget what Jesus does better than anyone else.
And this is what makes him dangerous, I think, in all the good ways.
This is what he does better than anything else.
Jesus changes lives.
He changes lives.
If you are sitting here this morning, you are in danger.
Why?
Because Jesus might change your life.
You may get resurrected today.
You may get breakthrough.
You may find freedom.
And what happens if one person finds breakthrough, or a couple of people find breakthrough, or the spirit of God moves amongst us, and hundreds find breakthrough?
Jesus doesn't change lives.
Then Jesus can change towns.
Why are we going to East Bluff plant a church?
Because Jesus can change a town.
He can resurrect a town.
He can revitalize a town.
And if he can change a town, then Jesus can change a country.
And Jesus can change a country, and then Jesus can change the world.
There is AD and BC, and what's in the middle?
This guy, this guy, his death barrow and resurrection.
This is what Jesus does.
He is dangerous to those who have power.
He is dangerous to those who hold control.
He is dangerous to religious systems.
And in the best way for the poor, the broken, the convicted, the sinful, he is dangerous because he can change your life in a moment.
Do you come to church expecting that that is possible?
Do you walk in this room and think that Jesus could change my life today?
Or are you already where you are?
And you're just counting down to see if I end on time.
Are you walking in and like, Jesus could change the people's lives around me?
Like something might happen.
God comes where he's wanted.
And if we don't want him, and our expectation is church check,
Then that's exactly what He'll do, and nothing more.
Go through a few of these.
Jesus overturns tables of money-changers in the temple.
He can overturn your life.
You put money above Him, you put position above Him, you put
possessions above him, Jesus can flip that upside down.
He declared his kingdom was not of this world.
You can live a counter-cultural lifestyle if you allow him to be the resurrection and life he wants to be.
His apostles had the testimony in Acts chapter 17.
They had this testimony.
They have turned the world upside down.
The disciples in Jason's house in the book of Acts literally are called by those who are afraid of what's going on.
These guys have turned the world upside down.
He can change lives.
I love what N.T.
Ray's Anglican theologian said, the gospel is not a picture of meek submission.
I think that's how we view Jesus.
He's the little sweet lamb, right?
He's a white guy in a photo holding a child, right?
Or Mary's holding him when he's swaddled.
The gospel is not a picture of meek submission, but a revolutionary defiance against the powers of evil.
Here's my personal conviction, and this is why I think Jesus can be so dangerous in all the best ways.
We have to start telling in our lives and in our church, the spiritual enemies of God, the principalities, the powers, the darkness of this world, we have to start saying these four words to them, not on our watch.
Not on our watch.
My Jesus is dangerous, my kids are prodigals, and not on my watch enemy, you bring the prodigals home.
My marriage is broken, Jesus you bind that enemy and you heal what is going on in my marriage.
Not on our watch, right?
If Jesus is just meek and mild and submissive and he is all those things, but he never, his gospel can never bring revolutionary defiance.
then I think what we become is just a bunch of victims that are waiting for heaven instead of having resurrection power and saying, you can't, you can't have Peoria.
You can't have it.
We're going to take some ground right here and then we're going to take some more region there and then we're going to take some more region there because it's not on our watch.
Satan is not on our watch.
When we see the enemy work in someone's life and they're telling you aren't worthy, you should be in shame.
You should be ashamed.
You shouldn't get baptized because you are shameful.
You should not read the word because you don't deserve to read it.
We need to step in those people's lives and say, not on our watch.
You walk unashamed, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
John Stott, the British theologian author said the cross is the most revolutionary act in history.
It's revolutionary.
It causes fear.
for those in control.
Now, once we see the danger of Jesus, these chief priests and Pharisees, they have to make plans to eliminate them.
They have to, right?
It's the same thing that can happen today.
You get on fire for Jesus, what's gonna happen?
Oh man, he got, you're in a cult.
You're in a cult, I knew it.
I knew Rich was man, I heard about the new guy, right?
I don't know how long I'm new, but, right?
I heard about the new guy, you know.
I heard what you guys are doing.
I'm in the pastor and told him what we were doing in East Bluff.
And he's like, aren't there enough churches there?
That's where we are.
My answer was no, by the way.
No.
Right.
say they have to eliminate him, which in turn moves Jesus.
Here's what Jesus has to do.
He moves out of the big cities, away from the platforms, and he moves into the countryside.
And that's why we will see in this chapter right here, shift number three, Jesus in the secret places.
This is actually pretty beautiful what Jesus does.
Jesus therefore in John chapter 11 verse 54, no longer walked openly among the Jews.
That's pretty sad.
All right, these are the people he came to say.
We no longer were open to Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim.
And there he stayed with the disciples.
Now the pastor of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves.
They were looking for Jesus.
People have heard about Lazarus and they're looking for Jesus.
What is happening at rituals?
What is happening at other churches in our region?
I talked to William Preston on a hill, their church is exploding.
They only have enough room anymore.
They had 60 extra people show up one Sunday.
And they've stayed, like what is happening?
There are people saying, where's Jesus?
We heard, right?
And they're saying one another as they stood in the temple, what do you think?
What do you think about this guy?
What do you think's happening, right?
It's awesome that he will come, that he will not come to the feast at all.
Do you think he's gonna come?
Now the chief priests and Pharisees are given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know so that they might arrest him.
You know what it means?
I love what it means.
Jesus leaves Jerusalem, goes to a small little country town called Ephraim.
And you know what it means?
Double fruit.
What happens when you get alone with Jesus?
What happens when you get in the secret place with Jesus?
Double fruit.
What happens when Jesus becomes dangerous in your life?
You see what happened is the quiet place happened for Jesus before the confrontation that was coming and it started in Ephraim.
The wilderness happened before the cross.
Jesus went into secret places before the cross that become very public.
The hidden years of Jesus were about to press into before the public redemption.
Now make sure you know this.
If Jesus right now seems like he slipped into the silent places of your life.
He's not as bold, not as aware of your, as you're used to him.
Maybe it feels like you have to press in more for Jesus.
Maybe you've started to ask God,
God, where are you?
Let me tell you this.
Jesus in the secret place is not absence, it is alignment.
It is alignment.
What Jesus is doing is he's aligning you with him, right?
I love what A.W.
Todos says 20th-century American pastor, all he says.
Jesus often withdraws before he advances.
He withdraws before he advances.
And he's about to advance big time in the book of John, but he has to withdraw because they want to kill him.
And he's got a bunch of work to do in places where he's going to see double fruit.
Right?
It's Jesus, which seemed like he's withdrawing in your life.
I think what he's doing is he's setting you up.
He's prepping you.
He's pulling you closer to see how he wants to change your life before he advances in your life.
Henry now and Dutch Catholic priest said solitude is the furnace.
of transformation.
So solitude is the furnace of transformation.
So I want to move into some time of spending time with God right here in church.
Months ago, we realized as a church, if you're new here, we realized like, man, we preach and then we sing a song and we go home.
And often what happens in the parking lot is the enemy swoops in and he takes what God gave you here and you never got to plant that seed deep in your heart.
And boom, it just goes away.
And so we as a church felt a theological conviction to create space for you to spend time with God.
Today, we're going to do it before, in the middle, and after the song.
There's people available on both sides of the room.
I'll be right there.
And I'm going to ask you three questions, three waves for you to process while we worship.
three waves to help you take the word of God we just heard and apply it to your life.
Here's wave number one.
Is there any part of you that is afraid of what Jesus could do if you gave up control?
What is the difference between Jesus changing your life and you keeping him on the outside like the Pharisees and chief priests?
It's control.
It doesn't mean you don't love God.
It just means maybe you don't trust Him.
What doesn't He have control over?
What is He not the Lord of?
Maybe He's not the Lord of your mouth.
Maybe He's not the Lord of your mind.
Maybe He's not the Lord of your money or your kids.
I have to control.
I have to be everything for my kids instead of I'm just stewarding my kids.
Maybe this is your church and you need to let it be his church.
So while we start to sing this beautiful song, we'll be available for if you want to come pray that out, but you can do that right in your seat too.
Just answer this question in your mind.
Is there any part of me that is afraid to let Jesus
have control because I worry is dangerous and he might change my life.
Let's stand and worship and respond.
I'll come back up with wave number two.
But area of your life, would you join Jesus in revolutionary defiance against the powers of evil?
Maybe this morning, you just need to call that out in audible prayer and say, not on my watch in this place.
Maybe you need to go to someone and say, man, I want to bring this person before God because the enemy is working.
Maybe you're going to call your marriage, your work, your finance, whatever.
I don't even want to limit it, your mental health.
And not on my watch.
You can't have my neighborhood.
You can't have this city.
Where can we, even as the people of God respond?
And say, you know what?
We've been making mile long enough.
Because I don't know about you.
I watch the news.
I live in this world.
The enemy sure isn't being silent.
He's stealing, killing, destroying every single day.
Every single day.
Maybe we as a people of God, why this song goes, we can just cry out and say, not on my watch.
Respond how you need.
The same guy that never feels You will not fail me now You won't fail me now I'm gonna wait on you The same guy that's never laid He's working all things out He's working all things out
I will.
and the band will continue to play a little bit.
Go get your kids.
If you got some business to do with God, come on back in.
We'll be available.
We'd love to pray with you.
We would love to contend against the principalities, powers, darknesses, the world on your behalf.
These people are equipped and trained to do so.
Our pastors are ready to respond.
However you would, but I want to leave you with one more question.
Maybe you're struggling with like, where is God?
Would you consider
Could this be a season of alignment before he advances in your life?
And we're in that valley.
One of the things I learned this week, there was a hard lesson for me to grab ahold of is that sometimes it's not that just God allows the valley, he actually led me there.
Oh.
He loves me enough.
to lead you to the place, the darkest place, to get you in alignment because he has something for you with him that requires that place.
It is a hard acceptance of the love of God.
Maybe you should need to process it with someone.
Maybe you need to process it with someone you came with.
You can use this room.
Ain't nobody here for another 25 minutes and we don't care.
You can stay.
How is God moving to you to respond today?
Well, prayer, can we help you walk through it?
Heavenly Father, thank you for the word of God.
Thank you for the raising of Lazarus.
You are mighty.
You are the resurrection and life.
God, I would have loved to have been outside that cave.
But we will experience our own resurrection, maybe for some, maybe for one person.
Today is the day that they resurrect from the thing that has kept them dead for so long.
God, I pray that in this room, if there is any fear, shame, keeping someone from going to someone else and saying, help me.
I pray not on our watch.
Holy Spirit, move.
Free those people from that garbage.
Tell them they are loved.
Tell them you are crazy about them and that they can walk unashamed.
and that you are dangerous in all the best ways.
That you are a good father and you want their life to align with you and your purposes.
Move throughout this room.
Do amazing things, Spirit of God.
Yeah, we attend a church.
Change a life today, God.
Change a life.
We just want to rejoice with you in it.
Help people find and follow you today.
Jesus mighty name.
Amen.
You are dismissed.
We love you.
Respond if you need to.